# Music Recommendation Sytem

## Through analysing a century's music data, patterns and trends that can predict a song's popularity and align with user preferences were identified. The project successfully integrated multiple unsupervised learning algorithms, like K-Means and DBSCAN, which, along with similarity measures and feature engineering techniques, contributed to developing a more nuanced recommendation system. This system can offer personalized playlists by considering an array of factors such as genre, mood, and tempo, thus providing a more satisfying user experience in music discovery on Spotify. 

## Over the course of the project, we got the opportunity to discover what goes behind a music recommendation system and gained more knowledge on how to approach unsupervised learning techniques. Based on our research and our own testing, we found that cosine similarity was a good starting point for implementing a recommendation model based on the relative simplicity of building it and the outputs it gave. When we provided a list of familiar songs, the system suggested outputs that were either similar in genre and style to our input or upon listening to the unfamiliar ones, we found them to be good as well. Out of the four models we used, the KNearest Neighbors model returned the highest value in terms of accuracy. The K-Means algorithm came close to KNN in terms of evaluation, while DBSCAN algorithm showed some room for improvement. 

## The world of recommendation systems is constantly changing, with new and complex ways of garnering insights and finding correlations in a dataset, and we are excited to see how this space grows.
